
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                       Shareaza Connection Test                       |
|                                 v1.12                                |
+----------------------------------------------------------------------+

This is the Shareaza Connection Test, a PHP script that checks if a
Gnutella2 client is reachable from the network, and thus confirms that
any firewall and/or router has properly been configured on TCP as well
as on UDP.  This test works with all Gnutella2 compliant clients, which
includes Shareaza, Adagio and all GnucDNA-based clients.

NOTE: This package contains the source of the test, which you only need
if you intend to run a copy of this test on a server.  If you just want
to test your client, then you don't need this package; instead use one
of the tests that is already running an a server.  Refer to the Shareaza
Forums to find them (http://shareaza.sourceforge.net/phpbb/).


License
-------

All files packaged with this test are covered by the GNU General Public
License (GPL).  This also includes the language files.  Further
informations are included at the top of the files themselves and in the
file COPYING.


Requirements
------------

This test of course needs a working web server with PHP installed.  But
I don't know which is the oldest version of PHP that works properly with
this test.  It has been tested on at least PHP 5.0.x and 4.3.8 and works
fine on both of them.  It's possible that it will fail to run on
versions prior to 4.3, but you probably shouldn't have such a version
installed anyway.

Also note that the connection test uses some socket functions that are
still marked as being 'experimental' by PHP documentation, though they
really seem to work fine.  It is to note that not every installation of
PHP provides all required socket functions!  This is something to be
specially aware of if you're trying to run it on a free hosting, as they
often don't provide them.


Installation
------------

Installation should be very simple.  Just unpack the content of the ZIP
file; it will create a new directory named 'connectiontest', containing
everything.  You can change the name of this directory if you want.
After this is done, the test should be ready to be used.

However, the statistics at the bottom of the page will only work if the
test can read and write the file 'var/stats.dat'.  Make sure it has
proper permissions set.  This data file is *not* included in the ZIP
package!  This is so that it won't get overwritten when new versions are
installed on top of an old ones.  You either have to create this file
yourself and give it proper permissions (creating an empty file is
fine); or then change the permissions of the var/ directory, so that the
test can create the file itself.  The latter is the prefered method.

There also are a few settings in the file 'index.php'.  But usually, you
won't have to mess with them.  Please know what you're doing, if you
change settings in that file.  You probably shouldn't enable the 'IP
field' in publicly available versions.


Testing
-------

IMPORTANT: Please, do always test the connection test before you make
the link to it public.  It is always possible that something went wrong
or that your network environment prevents it from working properly.
Make sure there is no firewall that would disallow arbitrary outgoing
traffic, be sure that the server doesn't restrict the port numbers the
connection test can bind to.  Start Shareaza or another G2 client and
make the test, try a few different ports including 6346 and ports below
1024.  Do this over the internet, not only through your LAN.  You might
want to change the variable '$opt_error_level' to 'E_ALL' for testing,
so you'll see error messages.  But note that error/warning messages
don't automatically imply that something is wrong, for example, they are
normal on a 'connection refused'.  (Turn those messages off again after
testing).

If it works properly, give the link to a few friends so they can test it
too.  It's possible that it works for some people while it doesn't for
others.

If you notice that something is wrong, like that some ports don't work,
then either fix the problem or don't make the test public!  It would be
very bad to make a non-functional test public, as it may then give out
wrong results to users.


Linking to the test
-------------------

The test is in an own directory, so that you only need to link to that
directory.  Don't forget the trailing slash!  For example:

  http://www.blah.com/ct/

In links to the test, you can change the default values to whatever you
want.  This includes the port, the 'long timeout' (lto), the language
and the IP field if it is enabled.  The most common case is to provide
links with a different language like this:

  http://www.blah.com/ct/?lang=fr

Here's an example link that changes all of those defaults:

  http://www.blah.com/ct/?lang=de&ip=192.168.123.202&port=9500&lto=1


Pass the link around
--------------------

After having done all the testing and you're positive that everything is
working properly, then consider making the link publicly available, so
that everyone can make use of it.  The test doesn't consume much
bandwidth; on average, there's currently one test being done every 3-4
minutes on my server (rising tendency).  For making the test public,
either contact me or post the link on the Shareaza Forums
(http://shareaza.sourceforge.net/phpbb/).


That's it
---------

There's not much more to say.  If you have any problem, question or
comment about this connection test, then feel free to drop me an email:
jlh at gmx dot ch.

Please don't send me questions about installing web server software
and/or PHP itself, I won't be of much help; instead, see the respective
documentations.  Also, don't send me questions about configuring your
firewall and/or router; instead, go to the Shareaza Forums
(http://shareaza.sourceforge.net/phpbb/) or to the Shareaza Wiki
(http://shareaza.sourceforge.net/mediawiki/).

Last but not least, thanks go to everyone that helped me making this
test, to everyone that provided translations and to everyone that is
hosting it!  :)

                                                       -- jlh, July 2009
